the following is a production of New
Mexico State University
Oh
New Mexico the chili capital of the
world known for clear skies wide open
spaces and agriculture farming has been
an important part of New Mexico's
culture since before it became a state
in 1912 the fertile soil temperate
climate family tradition all of these
factors make New Mexico an attractive
place for vegetable cultivation but the
moderate winters especially in northern
New Mexico limit the growing season to
only about six months from May through
October some small-scale farmers use
greenhouses to grow crops over the
winter months but the high cost of
building a greenhouse can be prohibitive
for most growers so here come cold
frames to the rescue sometimes called
new houses cold frame greenhouses can
extend the growing season up to 12
months for many crops allowing some of
the hardy or varieties to grow year
round they cost only about a dollar per
square foot to build or about four
hundred and fifty dollars for a 480
square foot greenhouse at that price
many small-scale farmers as well as home
gardeners are utilizing cold frames to
keep producing crops throughout the
winter in addition to being affordable
and practical cold frames are easy to
build and cheap to maintain del jimenez
with New Mexico State University's
Cooperative Extension Service is the
resident expert in cold frame
construction at the alcalde science
center in northern New Mexico Jimenez
and a group of local growers got
together to build a new cold frame at
the Science Center this size of the
greenhouse is going to be 17 foot wide
and it's going to be 32 foot long now
the length can be any length that you
guys want it to be ah but for the piece
of land that we have over here we're
going to dictate it to 30 to 32 feet but
people come up to me and say well I
don't want something that long I want it
shorter what can I do but you can make
it shorter okay and you make it shorter
by just cutting off the segments of
these pipes that you need over here but
we normally put these these pipes in the
frame about in four foot lengths
okay so so the building is going to be
17 x 4 8 12 16 20 24 28 32 okay the
actual size of any finished cold frame
can be designed to suit your own unique
needs some of the important factors to
consider in designing your cold frame
include available space desired crops
and budget Jimenez worked out a
materials list of just exactly what
would be needed to construct this
particular cold frame
you